# Contributing

First off, thank you for considering contributing to **spaceporn-cli**.

**Secondly, while this project is not in a stable state, maintainers will not
accept a pull request. Rules described here will be applied when spaceporn-cli
will be released.**

## Feature request

If you think a missing feature can be valuable for this project and its users,
the maintainers would be interested to discuss about it in the
[issue tracker](https://github.com/pabtomas/spaceporn/issues). Do not hesitate
to join pictures and/or shaders if you request a graphic content.

## Bugs

If a bug happens to you, the maintainers would be happy if you could open an
issue. Ensure that you include:
- Operating System (and Window Manager if possible),
- a brief description of the problem with steps to reproduce,
- your graphic hardware (GPU) and its driver,
- the file generated by this command: `journalctl -t spaceporn > spaceporn.log`

If something is missing, it could be hard to fix.

## Security

If you think you have found a security issue, please do not mention it in this
repository. Instead, send this message (and no more): "I found a spaceporn
security issue" to **u/tiawl Reddit user**.

## Make a pull request

Before you start any Pull Request, you should take a look at the 2 sections
below. Then it is highly recommended to create an issue to discuss first. That
way you can be sure that:
- the maintainers agree on what to change and how,
- you have all information you need,
- you are not working on something that someone is already working on.

### Maintainers' roadmap

Here the maintainers' [todolist](TODO.md). Tasks are expressed by the
maintainers for the maintainers. It is not intented to be read by others so
the tasks are not detailed. But if you want to contribute without going
against the maintainers' work, you should consider this file. If you do not
really know what a task is talking about and it might be a problem for a
future contribution: feel free to open an issue to ask more details.

### What can be improved or done ?

Here is a list of outstanding feature requests or notes for future
development. If you want to contribute to this project and have no idea what
you can do, you can pick one of these tasks:
- Shaders maths and algorithms can be improved,
- Valgrind false positives' in [amd.supp](amd.supp),
- UNSOLVED **Know Issues** in [README.md](README.md),
- Build an online version (with limited features).
